# 1006. Clumsy Factorial

## LeetCode [1006. Clumsy Factorial](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/clumsy-factorial/)

### Description

Normally, the factorial of a positive integer `n` is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to `n`.  For example, `factorial(10) = 10 * 9 * 8 * 7 * 6 * 5 * 4 * 3 * 2 * 1`.

We instead make a _clumsy factorial:_ using the integers in decreasing order, we swap out the multiply operations for a fixed rotation of operations: multiply \(\*\), divide \(/\), add \(+\) and subtract \(-\) in this order.

For example, `clumsy(10) = 10 * 9 / 8 + 7 - 6 * 5 / 4 + 3 - 2 * 1`.  However, these operations are still applied using the usual order of operations of arithmetic: we do all multiplication and division steps before any addition or subtraction steps, and multiplication and division steps are processed left to right.

Additionally, the division that we use is _floor division_ such that `10 * 9 / 8` equals `11`.  This guarantees the result is an integer.

`Implement the clumsy` function as defined above: given an integer `N`, it returns the clumsy factorial of `N`.

**Example 1:**

```text
Input: 4
Output: 7
Explanation: 7 = 4 * 3 / 2 + 1
```

**Example 2:**

```text
Input: 10
Output: 12
Explanation: 12 = 10 * 9 / 8 + 7 - 6 * 5 / 4 + 3 - 2 * 1
```

**Note:**

1. `1 <= N <= 10000`
2. `-2^31 <= answer <= 2^31 - 1`  \(The answer is guaranteed to fit within a 32-bit integer.\)

### Tags

Math

### Solution

Refer to Ref. 1 for $$O(1)$$ time complexity solution.

Use a for-loop to deal with 2 major cases: whether the number of remain operands is smaller than 4. If not, we add -i \* \(i - 1\) / \(i - 2\) and i - 3 to result; if so, we add -6, -2, -1 to result when i=3, 2, 1 respectively. However, if it is the first time we operate result, we should add the opposite number of that operand.

### Complexity

* Time complexity: $$O(n)$$
* Space complexity: $$O(1)$$

### Code

```go
func clumsy(N int) int {
	var ans int
	var flag bool
	for i := N; i >= 1; i -= 4 {
		switch {
		case i >= 4:
			e := -i * (i - 1) / (i - 2)
			if !flag {
				e = -e
				flag = true
			}
			ans += e + i - 3
		case i == 3:
			ans -= 6
		case i == 2:
			ans -= 2
		case i == 1:
			ans -= 1
		}
		if !flag {
			ans = -ans
			flag = true
		}
	}
	return ans
}
```

## Reference

1. [笨阶乘](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/clumsy-factorial/solution/ben-jie-cheng-by-leetcode-solution-deh2/)

